---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My First Steps with JavaScript
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-01
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Since I first started writing code, I've always wanted to learn how to create my very own website, something tangible that I can see and something that I can show to people that I'm proud of. After having learned Java over the course of a year, I was ready to try something different, JavaScript. No, no, they aren't related (a common misconception) but there are some similarities.

JavaScript, on its own, is a very intriguing language. You can actually assing functions to variables, which is a powerful tool in a language. JavaScript is mostly used for website development and app development. It is very useful for anyone, especially if you want to create your own website to showcase your skills, resumes, and projects. Going through the steps on FreeCodeCamp was a great start to learning more about the language. Variable declarations, for example, are much different than Java. In Java, you have to use int, string, or float amongst other variables to use the variables without error. In JavaScript, it is much different. You can use let, const, or var and then assign your variable accordingly. I have used JavaScript before so this wasn't completely new territory, luckily. After having gone through the modules on FreeCodeCamp, though, I feel much more confident about JavaScript in general. 

I am very excited to hone my coding skills in this class. Getting a taste of JavaScript and starting on the WODs feels great and it really gets me thinking in short amounts of time, just like a coding interview almost. I know that I can get a lot out of this class if I put in the work, which I plan wholeheartedly on doing. I am ecstatic to learn more and to really delve into the world of software engineering. 

