---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Software Engineering: a Reflection on Not Only a Class, but an Eventful Competition
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-12-17
labels:
  - Engineering
---


Wow. This semester has been arguably the best semester that I've had so far in my undergraduate academic career. Not only have I had the chance to collaborate with
some remarkable students and peers, but I also pushed myself to do something totally out of my comfort level. 

The semester started like most do nowadays (during the time of COVID). Introductions online, no in person collaboration, and a barricade to really make friends
in your classes. This semester was something different though, as time progressed. Not only were we able to really talk to each other and help one another
in homework and the concepts we talked about, but we formed teams that blossomed great friendships and achievements. My first experiences with the WODs 
(kind of like coding interview questions in a way) was kind of hit or miss. I really enjoyed the experience but there were a few that I missed and that really discouraged 
me in the future WODs. Was I not paying enough attention to the underscore JS material? Was I not totally understanding Meteor? It was really just getting used to
how WODs work and really applying myself more. We started the semester by learning about basics of HTML and CSS. Once we really learned the basics, we moved onto
Javascript and functional programming. Functional programming was arguably one of my favorite parts of the class but also the hardest (for me because of the WODs).
The fact that you can assign functions to variables still kind of blows my mind. Then, we moved onto frameworks, working a lot with Semantic UI and React. 
I've worked with Bootstrap before so it wasn't anything new but it was really cool learning another framework. I really enjoyed working with it because it
is something very creative and something tangible that you can express yourself with. Being able to recreate websites in real time and seeing your changes 
show up in seconds was really cool and I really enjoyed the experience of recreating different sites. My favorite part of the semester, however, was the Hawaii
Annual Code Challenge (HACC). 

The HACC was honestly the best experience I've had so far in my academic career. It really started by just wanting extra credit for showing up for the HACC kickoff
event. Right after, my team really wanted to work on it and try our hardest to place in the event. After all, we could win up to $4000 as a team. We dove right in
trying to figure out what we wanted to use, how we wanted to implement it, and what challenge we wanted to take on. We ended up using Semantic UI, React, 
and Meteor for our application. We chose the Hawaii Marine Animal Response challenge, which was to create an application that users can log Hawaii Monk Seals, 
Green Sea Turtles, and Seabirds into an app that HMAR can use to dispatch their volunteers to respond to, especially if they were in distress. We worked tirelessly
for about a month really fine tuning and making the app as marketable and appealing as possible. I worked a lot in the frontend department creating web pages and
making sure that the CSS looked good. Additionally, I did the testing with testCafe to ensure that all the links worked how they were supposed to. Our team
ended up placing second in the event, winning us $2000 as a group and really giving us some good validation as undergraduate computer science students. 
It was such a cool learning experience full of people in the field who gave us valuable tools to use in our developments. The fact that we placed higher than 
some other upperclassmen students who had more experience was really the cherry on top too. 

After the HACC, we learned more about design patterns, ethics in software engineering, and project management. One of my favorite classes was actually 
talking about the Facebook whistleblower event and deciding whether or not Facebook acted ethically in their implementations of technologies in accordance with 
the ACM. It was actually kind of intriguing to listen to the people who were assigned to debate on the side of Facebook and hearing why they thought that FB
acted ethically, especially when they used the ACM points that were given to us. 

This class was easily my favorite class that I've taken thus far at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. Both professors were so knowledgable and helpful 
with not only our projects and class work but also our professional persona and making sure we had/have a good professional presence when we start applying for 
jobs and internships. I will always look back on this class and my group with fondness and remember how fun this class was and how much I got out of it from 
applying myself and working towards something that was out of my comfort level. 
