---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Journey as a Software Developer
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-02
labels:
  - Engineering
---

Throughout my short time in college, and as an adult, I have really been searching for what I want to do and ultimately where I want to end up. It's hard work, figuring out what you want to do. The older I have become and the more life experience I have accumulated, the more I realize that there is something more than just tech. Technology has come so far even since I was a little kid. We didn't have smartphones or virtual reality headsets. But now that technology has progressed, I see myself wanting to help people and make an impact in some way with software engineering. 

When I was younger, I loved tech. Whether that was video games, or cameras, or computers, I was always infatuated with the idea of it. Improving on a product,  making it better for the user, and ultimately making peoples' lives better. How can something as simple as a phone, a watch, or virtual reality make someone's life better? Microsoft has been innovating with their Hololens virtual reality computing and has used it in a real life surgery. Apple has brought us closer to our friends and family that live far away with their creation of FaceTime. Tesla has pushed the automative industry forward towards electric cars by making cars that are so user friendly, that other car manufacturers also have to compete with them. The world that we live in today is quite amazing, and I can't wait to help push humanity forward somehow in the future. 

When someone asks me what I want to do in tech, I tell them that I don't want to work on games or some pointless app that we spend hours of our time on. I want to make an impact on people. I love innovative technology and the idea of Artifial Intelligence and Machine Learning and Cloud based infrastructure excites me to no end. Even video games can have a big impact on peoples' lives. Microsoft has created an adaptive controller for people with disabilities so that they can also play games and have fun just like the rest of us. 

In the end, I want to be working with AI, virtual reality, machine learning, deep learning, or something of the like where I'm constantly pushing myself and my teammates are pushing me as well. Something like Cloud engineering also really intrigues me too. As long as I am progressing myself and doing the best that I can to ensure that, I will be happy. I would love to learn iOS and Android development (Swift, Flutter, Dart, Python) as well as web development too. 
